---
layout: post
title: Day 1
---
# Day 1

## Take a photo

This is a moment you will want to remember forever.  Don't forget to have a camera, smart phone, and chargers handy. 

## Change baby

There will be messes, but you will get the hang of diaper changes, and you will become fast.  Just remember: always keep at least one hand on the baby so they can't roll off, dry with a tissue, and check that the ruffles are NOT tucked into the diaper around the legs.  At the beginning, Baby's small stomach requires frequent feedings, and the small stomach/bladder combo require frequent diaper changes.  Make sure your diaper station is set up in advance, and that you have a good supply of all the disposable necessities.  Before Baby comes, set up everything and make sure you can reach everything (and the respective back-up stashes.)

{% include item.html heading="Diapers" text="We've had a great experience with Pampers Swaddlers, which is what our hospital used as well.  We also tried Huggies Naturals, but those ended up leaking every time we used them.  We've never tried cloth diapers, but don't forget that the option exists, and diaper laundering services have sprung up." %}

{% include item.html heading="Wipes" text="Lots of options out there, from some great brands.  We were looking for something for a baby with very sensitive skin, and went with a friend's recommendation for WaterWipes." %}

{% include item.html heading="Tissues " text="Yes, such as plain Kleenex, or any other option without lotion.   If you remember just one thing from this website, let it be this -- dab dry that baby before putting a new diaper on!  The best wiping job that leaves some moisture on the baby may lead to a rash.  Dab, dab, dab!" %}

{% include item.html heading="Tushy cream" text="Don't wait until your baby gets a rash.  Just rub a bit of this stuff on the tushy to prevent redness, swelling, irritation, tears, and GUILT in the first place.  We tried several options, but like this brand in particular for lack of smell, good consistency, and results.  " %}

{% include item.html heading="Gloves" text="Whatever uses you're picturing right now, many of them will likely come true.  Sometimes a mess is too much to clean without them.  Sometimes you're putting Orajel on teething gums and there isn't a place to wash your hands." %}

{% include item.html heading="Dirty diaper bags" text="The ones for babies are way too expensive to serve as the momentary receptacle of poop!  Find whatever you prefer, but we just got these ones meant for furry babies. " %}

{% include item.html heading="Small disposable pads" text="We like to lay these on the portable pad, because mid-change peeing is a thing." %}

{% include item.html heading="Vaseline" text="This is especially important if you have a circumcised newborn Baby boy.  We found that the large tubs get messy and are inconvenient; the little packets make portability and application far easier." %}

{% include item.html heading="Changing pad" text="The ones with a border all around will help keep baby from moving around too much, but the ones with only side borders will be better once the baby is much longer. " %}

{% include item.html heading="Changing pad cover" text="Get a couple; even with the disposable pads, you'll find yourself needing to launder these quite frequently." %}

{% include item.html heading="Baby boy tepee" text="We kind of gave up on these, but some people have better luck. " %}

{% include item.html heading="Mirror" text="Especially after a few weeks, babies love seeing themselves in the mirror." %}

{% include item.html heading="Toys for distraction" text="Just some stuff to help soothe and calm a baby during diaper changes." %}

{% include item.html heading="Laundry basket" text="Because there will be lots and lots of laundry.As long as we're on this topic, don't forget to get some baby detergent.   " %}

{% include item.html heading="Diaper genie" text="Not perfect, and requires buying their bag refills, but helps keep the smells at bay.  If you're breastfeeding, you're delaying the really smelly poop -- formula and solids are what really crank up the stink.  We didn't want to fill up the genie bags too quickly, so non-diapers -- tissues, disposable changing pads -- go into just a regular garbage bin that we keep next to the diaper genie." %}

{% include item.html heading="Diaper genie bags" text="If you're going with the diaper genie, you will need these." %}

{% include item.html heading="Diaper genie filters" text="If you're going with the diaper genie, you will need these as well. " %}

{% include item.html heading="Hand sanitizer" text="Because sometimes you just can't get to the bathroom to wash your hands before closing that final diaper/piece of clothing." %}

{% include item.html heading="More outfits" text="There will be messes :-)" %}

{% include item.html heading="Swaddles" text="If you're going to stick with swaddling, and your baby responds well to swaddling, godspeed.  If you've got a Houdini on your hands, get some good swaddle sacks (you may need to try a few) and don't worry about how to fold your baby into a burrito.  " %}

## Feed Baby - set up your feeding station for breastfeeding

{% include item.html heading="Feeding pillow" text="We liked the My Breast Friend; it's secure and comfortable and absolutely perfect for a newborn.  However, something like a Boppy Pillow will evolve into other uses as Baby grows, such as propping them up to learn to sit. " %}

{% include item.html heading="Feeding pillow cover" text="Whichever pillow you choose, you'll need a couple of covers to alternate with messes.  Another option, or an additional one, is to lay a blanket down on the pillow every time, thus preserving the cover and just washing blankets when a spit up or some other mess occurs." %}

{% include item.html heading="Nursing bra" text="Get something super comfortable for home wearing - you'll be whipping them in and out all day and night, and your body is still adjusting to size and hardness changes.  We recommend two.  If you want a more supportive, fancier option for going out in public, but still having easy access to milk, we got this one upon a friend's recommendation." %}

{% include item.html heading="Nursing night gown" text="Baby needs easy access at all hours to milk, you need something easy for milk pad insertion, and you also need something with lots of access to your lady parts to take care of yourself after birth." %}

{% include item.html heading="Nursing pads" text="We tried several, and Lansinoh was the best designed as far as dimensions and ease of use." %}

{% include item.html heading="Nipple soothing gel pads" text="Because sometimes you will be sore.  With time, however, feeding frequency and duration go down, and your nipples get more used to their new (but don't worry, temporary!) job." %}

{% include item.html heading="Blankets" text="Because you can never have enough baby blankets around." %}

{% include item.html heading="Burping cloth" text="If you prefer a specialized blanket" %}

{% include item.html heading="Nursing chair" text="These span size, comfort, and price tags.  Perhaps you alrady have a nice spot on the couch in front of the TV and don't need this at all. " %}

{% include item.html heading="Water for mama" text="Wherever your feeding station, make sure there is a table for full glasses or bottles for Mama!  You'll be feeding dozens of ounces of milk to your baby; you must replenish your own fluids.  This is also absolutely key to having a normal digestive system after giving birth. " %}

{% include item.html heading="Snacks for mama" text="Those dozens of ounces of milk also mean youÎéÎ÷re giving your baby calories from your own body.  This is great news for pregnancy weight loss, but each calorie of milk is roughly 20 calories, and you are going to need some healthy snacks around to satisfy your hunger and nutritional needs. " %}

{% include item.html heading="Charged phone within reach for Mama" text="Sometimes feeding time will be just bonding time, and sometimes it will be the only time you can reliably predict being able to call someone, buy something you need, check on Facebook, or do pretty much anything.  " %}

{% include item.html heading="Emergency formula" text="Just in case, who knows. Ask your Pediatrician which is best." %}

## Set up your feeding station if pumping

Pumping is one of the most dehumanizing activities out there.  Look at it this way, though -- it's the price for the best of both worlds if you're breast feeding -- you can provide breast milk to your Baby and still have some flexibility/freedom.

{% include item.html heading="Pump" text="This one works well, is available at many hospitals, and parts are ubiquitously available.  Make sure you're familiar with how to use your pump ahead of time -- you never know when a blocked milk duct or wanting to store some extra milk will come. " %}

{% include item.html heading="Pump parts" text="They will come with the pump, but there are a few good reasons for buying additional ones.  The major one is fit.  Try the pump -- you may need phalanges that are a larger or smaller size.  The other reason is convenience.  If you're pumping multiple times per day, and you don't have to sterilize your parts, you can store your parts in the refrigerator between feedings.  Ask your Pediatrician about Baby's health and also about local water quality to determine weather you need to sterilize you parts, in which case microwave bags are a big help.  If you are not near a fridge, and don't have time to wash parts between pumps, you may want to have several sets handy." %}

{% include item.html heading="Bottles" text="So many to choose from, with so many different advantages and/or gimmicks.  We went with Tommee Tippee based on some of the review we read." %}

{% include item.html heading="Storing bags or bottles" text="The bags are easiest -- they are disposable, and stack nicely in the freezer.  If you want something not plastic, glass is an option, but there is a greater chance of breakage.  To get the best of both worlds we went with this stainless steel option. " %}

{% include item.html heading="Pumping bra" text="Free your hands and your time" %}

{% include item.html heading="Nursing bra" text="Get something super comfortable for home wearing - you'll be whipping them in and out all day and night, and your body is still adjusting to size and hardness changes.  We recommend two.  If you want a more supportive, fancier option for going out in public, but still having easy access to milk, we got this one upon a friend's recommendation." %}

{% include item.html heading="Nursing night gown" text="Baby needs easy access at all hours to milk, you need something easy for milk pad insertion, and you also need something with lots of access to your lady parts to take care of yourself after birth." %}

{% include item.html heading="Nursing pads" text="We tried several, and Lansinoh was the best designed as far as dimensions and ease of use." %}

{% include item.html heading="Nipple soothing gel pads" text="Because sometimes you will be sore.  With time, however, feeding frequency and duration go down, and your nipples get more used to their new (but don't worry, temporary!) job." %}

{% include item.html heading="Blankets" text="Because you can never have enough baby blankets around." %}

{% include item.html heading="Burping cloth" text="If you prefer a specialized blanket" %}

{% include item.html heading="Nursing chair" text="These span size, comfort, and price tags.  Perhaps you alrady have a nice spot on the couch in front of the TV and don't need this at all. " %}

{% include item.html heading="Water for mama" text="Wherever your feeding station, make sure there is a table for full glasses or bottles for Mama!  You'll be feeding dozens of ounces of milk to your baby; you must replenish your own fluids.  This is also absolutely key to having a normal digestive system after giving birth. " %}

{% include item.html heading="Snacks for mama" text="Those dozens of ounces of milk also mean youÎéÎ÷re giving your baby calories from your own body.  This is great news for pregnancy weight loss, but each calorie of milk is roughly 20 calories, and you are going to need some healthy snacks around to satisfy your hunger and nutritional needs. " %}

{% include item.html heading="Charged phone within reach for Mama" text="Sometimes feeding time will be just bonding time, and sometimes it will be the only time you can reliably predict being able to call someone, buy something you need, check on Facebook, or do pretty much anything.  " %}

{% include item.html heading="Emergency formula" text="Just in case, who knows. Ask your Pediatrician which is best." %}

## Prepare your feeding station for formula

{% include item.html heading="Formula" text="So many options to choose from, and it's not always clear what's a gimmick and what's an advantage.  Talk to your Pediatrician about which to try with your baby." %}

{% include item.html heading="Distilled water" text="If you're using powdered formula, you may want to have some distilled water around if your tap water is in any way suspect." %}

{% include item.html heading="Formula dispenser" text="We haven't tried, but were definitely tantalized by options like this one." %}

{% include item.html heading="Bottles" text="So many to choose from, with so many different advantages and/or gimmicks.  We went with Tommee Tippee based on some of the review we read." %}

{% include item.html heading="Blankets" text="Because you can never have enough baby blankets around." %}

{% include item.html heading="Burping cloth" text="If you prefer a specialized blanket." %}

## Play with Baby

Yay!!  Baby is clean, fed, and awake -- time to have a few minutes of fun, which are also Baby's learning time.

{% include item.html heading="Floor map" text="For tummy time, and all sorts of future play.  This one is very comfortable in terms of both size and cushion, and is easy to wipe.  It also has designs on both sides, in case you get bored.   " %}

{% include item.html heading="Tummy time mirror" text="Babies loooooove looking at themselves, though really you're not going to see much reaction for a few weeks, until their eyes develop." %}

{% include item.html heading="Rattle" text="At first, Baby can't see well.  This rattle is high contrast, and has the main colors babies see first.  It's also super cute and soft." %}

## Put baby down

{% include item.html heading="Crib" text="" %}

{% include item.html heading="Crib sheets" text="" %}

{% include item.html heading="Cosleeper" text="" %}

{% include item.html heading="Cosleeper sheets" text="" %}

{% include item.html heading="Pillow" text="" %}

{% include item.html heading="Pillow cover" text="" %}

{% include item.html heading="Swing" text="" %}

## Clean bottles

{% include item.html heading="Dishwashing liquid" text="" %}

{% include item.html heading="Bottle brush" text="" %}

{% include item.html heading="Drying rack" text="" %}
